\documentclass[english,man]{apa6}

\usepackage{amssymb,amsmath}
\usepackage{ifxetex,ifluatex}
\usepackage{fixltx2e} % provides \textsubscript
\ifnum 0\ifxetex 1\fi\ifluatex 1\fi=0 % if pdftex
  \usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
  \usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
\else % if luatex or xelatex
  \ifxetex
    \usepackage{mathspec}
    \usepackage{xltxtra,xunicode}
  \else
    \usepackage{fontspec}
  \fi
  \defaultfontfeatures{Mapping=tex-text,Scale=MatchLowercase}
  \newcommand{\euro}{â‚¬}
\fi
% use upquote if available, for straight quotes in verbatim environments
\IfFileExists{upquote.sty}{\usepackage{upquote}}{}
% use microtype if available
\IfFileExists{microtype.sty}{\usepackage{microtype}}{}

% Table formatting
\usepackage{longtable, booktabs}
\usepackage{lscape}
% \usepackage[counterclockwise]{rotating}   % Landscape page setup for large tables
\usepackage{multirow}		% Table styling
\usepackage{tabularx}		% Control Column width
\usepackage[flushleft]{threeparttable}	% Allows for three part tables with a specified notes section
\usepackage{threeparttablex}            % Lets threeparttable work with longtable

% Create new environments so endfloat can handle them
% \newenvironment{ltable}
%   {\begin{landscape}\begin{center}\begin{threeparttable}}
%   {\end{threeparttable}\end{center}\end{landscape}}

\newenvironment{lltable}
  {\begin{landscape}\begin{center}\begin{ThreePartTable}}
  {\end{ThreePartTable}\end{center}\end{landscape}}

  \usepackage{ifthen} % Only add declarations when endfloat package is loaded
  \ifthenelse{\equal{\string man}{\string man}}{%
   \DeclareDelayedFloatFlavor{ThreePartTable}{table} % Make endfloat play with longtable
   % \DeclareDelayedFloatFlavor{ltable}{table} % Make endfloat play with lscape
   \DeclareDelayedFloatFlavor{lltable}{table} % Make endfloat play with lscape & longtable
  }{}%



% The following enables adjusting longtable caption width to table width
% Solution found at http://golatex.de/longtable-mit-caption-so-breit-wie-die-tabelle-t15767.html
\makeatletter
\newcommand\LastLTentrywidth{1em}
\newlength\longtablewidth
\setlength{\longtablewidth}{1in}
\newcommand\getlongtablewidth{%
 \begingroup
  \ifcsname LT@\roman{LT@tables}\endcsname
  \global\longtablewidth=0pt
  \renewcommand\LT@entry[2]{\global\advance\longtablewidth by ##2\relax\gdef\LastLTentrywidth{##2}}%
  \@nameuse{LT@\roman{LT@tables}}%
  \fi
\endgroup}


\ifxetex
  \usepackage[setpagesize=false, % page size defined by xetex
              unicode=false, % unicode breaks when used with xetex
              xetex]{hyperref}
\else
  \usepackage[unicode=true]{hyperref}
\fi
\hypersetup{breaklinks=true,
            pdfauthor={},
            pdftitle={In a JAM: How Judgments of Associative Memory are Aided by Expertise},
            colorlinks=true,
            citecolor=blue,
            urlcolor=blue,
            linkcolor=black,
            pdfborder={0 0 0}}
\urlstyle{same}  % don't use monospace font for urls

\setlength{\parindent}{0pt}
%\setlength{\parskip}{0pt plus 0pt minus 0pt}

\setlength{\emergencystretch}{3em}  % prevent overfull lines

\ifxetex
  \usepackage{polyglossia}
  \setmainlanguage{}
\else
  \usepackage[english]{babel}
\fi

% Manuscript styling
\captionsetup{font=singlespacing,justification=justified}
\usepackage{csquotes}
\usepackage{upgreek}

 % Line numbering
  \usepackage{lineno}
  \linenumbers


\usepackage{tikz} % Variable definition to generate author note

% fix for \tightlist problem in pandoc 1.14
\providecommand{\tightlist}{%
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}\setlength{\parskip}{0pt}}

% Essential manuscript parts
  \title{In a JAM: How Judgments of Associative Memory are Aided by Expertise}

  \shorttitle{FREE ASSOCIATION EXPERTISE}


  \author{Erin M. Buchanan\textsuperscript{1}~\& K. D. Valentine\textsuperscript{2}}

  % \def\affdep{{"", ""}}%
  % \def\affcity{{"", ""}}%

  \affiliation{
    \vspace{0.5cm}
          \textsuperscript{1} Missouri State University\\
          \textsuperscript{2} University of Missouri  }

  \authornote{
    Erin M. Buchanan is an Associate Professor of Psychology at Missouri
    State University. K. D. Valentine is a Ph.D.~candidate in the
    Quantitative Psychology program at the University of Missouri.
    
    Correspondence concerning this article should be addressed to Erin M.
    Buchanan, 901 S. National Ave, Springfield, MO, 65897. E-mail:
    \href{mailto:erinbuchanan@missouristate.edu}{\nolinkurl{erinbuchanan@missouristate.edu}}
  }


  \abstract{({\textbf{???}}) famous inquiry, ``Are there more words with the letter
K in the first position or the third?'' highlights our difficulties with
making judgments from memory. People find it very easy to think of words
that start with K (\emph{kite, knife}), but have a harder time with K in
the third position (\emph{make, bake}), which is the correct answer.
While this frequency decision sounds innocuous, research in judgments of
learning (JOLs) portrays we have a serious need to understand how
underlying sorting and judgment from memory is accomplished. Koriat and
Bjork ({\textbf{???}}, {\textbf{???}}) have shown that participant's
ratings of test performance are nearly unrelated to actual test
performance. Here, participants created their own set of free
association norms over several weeks time and were then asked to judge
the associative strength of their word pairs. These judgments were then
compared to real associative strengths ({\textbf{???}}), a control
group, and a matched group. Participants who judged their own pairs were
better than all other groups implying that judgments based on
individualized generated memories are better than judging the collective
norm, but are albeit still far from perfect.}
  \keywords{judgments, memory, expertise \\

    
  }





\usepackage{amsthm}
\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\theoremstyle{definition}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{proposition}{Proposition}
\theoremstyle{definition}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\theoremstyle{definition}
\newtheorem{exercise}{Exercise}
\theoremstyle{remark}
\newtheorem*{remark}{Remark}
\newtheorem*{solution}{Solution}
\begin{document}

\maketitle

\setcounter{secnumdepth}{0}



People often are asked to judge the frequency or probability of events.
If you are waiting on a friend who is late to lunch, you have to decide
if (s)he is always late (high frequency) or never late (low frequency),
which will determine how long before you start to worry about them. Such
judgments are grossly inflated in many situations, and student learning
is one of the pertinent applications of judgment research. For example,
people estimate their competence at levels higher than those supported
by their actual levels of skill ({\textbf{???}}). Often, judgments of
learning (JOLs) are also inflated leading to inappropriate study
strategies ({\textbf{???}}). Individuals who self-monitor study habits
are found to be highly confident and poor at calibration in learning
({\textbf{???}}). Thus, development of methods for remediation of
inflated predictions is important for both theoretical and practical
reasons ({\textbf{???}}, {\textbf{???}}).

Word associations are a convenient domain in which to investigate
inflated predictions and their solutions ({\textbf{???}},
{\textbf{???}}). Word associations are usually measured by the method of
free association ({\textbf{???}}). In this task, participants are asked
to give the first word that comes to mind (target) when presented with a
stimulus word (cue). Averaged over many participants, the forward
strength (FSG) of the association between words \emph{A} and \emph{B} is
indexed by the conditional probability that word \emph{B} is given in
response to word \emph{A}. Large databases are available that list the
associative strengths of many thousands of cue-response pairs
({\textbf{???}}). For example, the probability of
\emph{computer-program} appearing together is about 12\% or 12 people
out of a 100.

Studies of the inflation of predictions within the domain of word
associations have shown that people typically over-estimate word
relations, especially for weakly associated pairs. This tendency toward
high ratings is most difficult to change ({\textbf{???}},
{\textbf{???}}, {\textbf{???}}). For example, the inflation persists
even when people are shown a list of common associates for a given cue
({\textbf{???}}), when people are given a cue and asked to think about
alternatives ({\textbf{???}}), and when people overtly generate their
own list of associates ({\textbf{???}}, {\textbf{???}}); in all three
cases judgments remained poorly assessed.

Because of the robustness of the inflation effect, finding a substantial
reduction is important. Three different training methods have proven
effective in reducing the inflation effect, such as mnemonic and theory
based debiasing. However, these training methods have only influenced
the overall over-estimation bias factor, but not our sensitivity to the
difference between low and high frequency events ({\textbf{???}}). Bias
is the general tendency to inflate judgments upwards (we think
everything is strongly related), while sensitivity is our ability to
accurately tune our judgments ({\textbf{???}}). The current experiment
tested how using individually normed frequencies affected our ability to
make judgments from memory. Previous research has shown that
participants cannot estimate what others would say when given a
particular cue word ({\textbf{???}}, {\textbf{???}}, {\textbf{???}},
{\textbf{???}}). In a traditional judgment of associative memory (JAM)
task, participants are asked to estimate how many college students out
of a 100 would list the second target word when presented with a first
cue word ({\textbf{???}}). Here, we had participants create their own
frequency norms, and then they were asked how often they put words
together. If these frequency memories are built over time (akin to
distributed practice study skills), we may see a boost in judgment
capacity over comparison groups. The following hypotheses will be
tested:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \emph{Hypothesis 1}: Word frequency will match previous database
  frequency on an individual and overall participant level. This
  hypothesis will be examined with correlations.
\item
  \emph{Hypothesis 2}: (A) Free association database norms will be
  predictive of all group's judgments. Simple linear regressions will be
  used to calculate the slope of judgments when compared to free
  association norms. These values will be tested against non-predictive
  slopes (i.e. \emph{b} = 0) with single sample \emph{t}-tests. (B)
  Furthermore, the individualized experimental group norms will be
  positively related to their judgments of associative memory, using the
  same procedure to test their slope values above zero.
\item
  \emph{Hypothesis 3}: Judgment ability will vary across groups, so that
  the experimental group should show better judgment ability when
  compared to their own norms over control, matched and experimental
  groups compared to free association norms. This hypothesis will be
  examined on slope values with a mixed factorial ANOVA and dependent
  t-test.
\end{itemize}

These hypotheses will highlight how expertise (interaction with word
pairings and their frequency) affects judgment processing on the memory
system. In a distributed practice study, one would expect judgments of
learning to be high because participants know they have practiced items
repeatedly, which would increase their frequency and likelihood of
remembrance. Here, judgments of memory should also be high when items
have been repeated over time, thus, strengthening their connection in
memory.

\section{Method}\label{method}

\subsection{Participants}\label{participants}

Participants were recruited through the Department of Psychology's
undergraduate subject pool. Students were required to participate in
research for their general psychology course, and some upper level
courses allowed research participation for extra credit. The research
project was displayed on the SONA system, which is online
participant-credit management software. Participants choose research
projects to complete based on availability and interest in the study's
posted abstract. The entire experiment was completed online, and each
section took approximately 5 to 15 minutes. In the experimental group,
fifty-five participants started the experiment, where \emph{n} = 41
completed all experimental sessions. For the non-finishing group
(\emph{n} = 14), the average number of sessions was \emph{M} = 2.14
(\emph{SD} = 1.17) with a range of 1 to 4 rating sessions. The
comparison groups included fifty-two participants for the control group
and forty-one participants for the matched group.

\subsection{Materials}\label{materials}

Stimuli were selected from the free association word norms by
({\textbf{???}}). The database contains different word-pair
combinations, along with the probabilities of those pairings. For
example, with the pair \emph{steak-sirloin}, \emph{steak} is the cue
word that is paired with the target word, \emph{sirloin}. Each cue word
(the first word) has several different target words (\emph{steak-cow},
\emph{steak-sauce}). Cue words were selected with varying number of
target combinations, specifically, ten cue words with small cue set
sizes and ten cues with large cue set sizes. Cue set size indicates the
number of other pairs in the database; for example, \emph{car} has 25
cue-target combinations in the ({\textbf{???}}) database, while
\emph{pupil} only has four cue-target combinations. The ten cue words
with a smaller cue set size (\emph{M} = 4.10, \emph{SD} = 0.63, range =
3-5) had an average forward strength (FSG) of \emph{M} = .23 (\emph{SD}
= .30) and backward strength (BSG) of \emph{M} = .03 (\emph{SD} = .09).
The larger cue set size words (\emph{M} = 24.96, \emph{SD} = 4.35, range
= 20-33) had a FSG of \emph{M} = .03 (\emph{SD} = .03) and a BSG of
\emph{M} = .05 (\emph{SD} = .11). Target word selection is described
below. A complete list of stimuli can be found at OSF link.

\subsection{Procedure}\label{procedure}

\subsubsection{Experimental Group}\label{experimental-group}

\paragraph{Norming Phase}\label{norming-phase}

This group of participants was given the chance to compare their own,
actual pairing probabilities instead of others' likely judgments. In the
norming stage of the experiment, participants were given instructions on
a free association task. The instructions described free association as
the \enquote{first word that pops into your mind when you hear a cue
word}. For example, many people talk about owning a cat and a dog, but
we may also mention that it's raining cats and dogs outside. These
examples help portray free association as language use and not just
language meaning, so that participants do not simply write only fur,
tails, and whiskers when asked about cats. After these instructions,
participants were given the twenty cue words with four blanks each. For
each cue word, they wrote the first four target words that come to mind,
which was intended to create some variation in target words during the
first stage. After they completed all the cue words, their answers were
stored.

After a minimum of two days, participants were allowed to take the
survey again. Participants were sent email reminders when they were
allowed to complete the next section of the study. Each participant took
the survey five times, and cue words were randomized with each
presentation. These trials were averaged and probabilities were created
for each cue-target pairing, similar to the ({\textbf{???}}) database.
For example, over the course of five trials, participants may have
listed many words for the cue \emph{computer}, such as \emph{mouse,
screen, game, program, keyboard, data, fast}, etc. Each of those
pairings will have a probability of occurring for that participant
(i.e., they may have listed \emph{screen} on all 5 surveys / 5 possible
= 100\%). From these pairings, 50 cue-target combinations were selected:
ten word-target pairs from each possible probability (20\%, 40\%, 60\%,
80\%, and 100\%).

\paragraph{Judgment Phase}\label{judgment-phase}

Participants were asked to estimate the probability of their combination
of each cue-target pair. For instance, a participant might see the
following: \enquote{When asked about computer, you listed the word
program. What percent of the time did you put computer and program
together?} On this page, they were shown a rating scale with five
options: 20\%, 40\%, 60\%, 80\%, and 100\%. They clicked a radio button
to select their option. After they finished the final survey, a
debriefing of the project was shown. The full dataset of words and
judgments from both phases is paired with an \emph{R} markdown file for
interested researchers at OSF link.

\subsubsection{Control Group}\label{control-group}

Results from a separate control group were compared against the
experimental participant judgment scores. Since each experimental
participant's final word pairs were different, a group of cue-target
pairings was selected from the ({\textbf{???}}) database to match the
experimental groups. The same twenty cues were used, and target words
were mixed so that there was an equal number of low, medium, and high
pairings. Three cue-target pairs were chosen for each original cue of
the experimental norming phase, and therefore, 60 cue-target pairs were
presented to participants. Several cues were repeated to create 60
word-pairs, to match the repetition in the experimental group. The
average FSG was \emph{M} = .19 (\emph{SD} = .25) and the BSG was
\emph{M} = .08 (\emph{SD} = .15).

The control group was given the same instructions about a free
association task, along with examples. Next, the rating task was
explained as follows: \enquote{How many people out of a 100 would give
the target (second) word when asked the cue (first) word?} Participants
estimated the probability of word pair occurrence using the same
20\%-40\%-60\%-80\%-100\% scale as the experimental group.

\subsubsection{Control Matched Group}\label{control-matched-group}

Lastly, a separate group of participants were used as comparison to the
experimental group. These participants were randomly paired with an
experimental participant. They were given the control group instructions
about free association and the same instructions for the rating task.
However, instead of judging randomly selected word-pairs, they were
shown experimental participant normed word-pairs. This group will be
used to examine the nature of stimuli on judgments, showing that
participant judgments improved because of their interaction with words
in the experimental group.

\section{Results}\label{results}

Descriptive statistics (Hypothesis 1). The data were tabulated in
several different ways, as shown in Table 1. First, the average number
of target words per person and mentions was calculated. This value is
the average number of cue-target combinations that were mentioned once,
twice, etc. calculated within subjects. In total, across all five
testing times, participants mentioned approximately 206 different target
words, which were mostly only mentioned once. The average number of
targets listed by stimuli and mentions show that the average number of
words listed for each of cues was 423, again with the majority of
targets mentioned once. Interestingly, a small bump in average number of
words was found for five mentions. A large majority of once mentioned
targets portrays that participants are not simply listing the same four
words on each cue and trial, but instead are listing large number of
unique words for each cue word. However, there are clearly targets that
have strong associations or you might expect the average number of words
per mention to continue to decrease across mentions. Second, 8,457 total
cue-target pairs were created across all participants, cues, and
experimental sessions. The percent of targets mentioned once was the
largest with a small increase for the number of targets mentioned five
times. 7,635 of these target words were unique within participants.
Target words were allowed to overlap across participants but not within
participants for calculation; for example, a participant might have
written achieve to both challenge and difficult. The average number of
unique targets per participant was M = 186.22 (SD = 37.66). 3,252 unique
targets were found by stimuli applying the same criteria as participants
(no-repeats within stimuli, but allowed across stimuli). The average
number of unique targets by stimuli was M = 162.60 (SD = 29.49). When
all targets were considered regardless of stimuli or participant, 2,277
unique targets were listed. These pairs were then compared to the Nelson
et al. (2004) database where 29.40\% percent of participant pairs had
non-zero normed values. When unique cue-target pairs are considered
(i.e.~no overlaps between participants), approximately 15.50\% of unique
pairs had non-zero values in the Nelson norms. The correlation between
participant normed values (20\%, 40\%, 60\%, 80\%, 100\%) and forward
strength was r = .44, p\textless{}.001. Further, if we calculate the
number of cue-target pairs that exist for the stimuli set, 75.96\% of
the non-zero possible pairs were listed across participants implying
that most targets were listed at least once. The correlation between the
percent of participants who list a pair at least once and forward
strength was r = .68, p\textless{}.001. This percent is the probability
of each cue-target pair, as if they had been collected in the normal
free association style, with one target per cue (collective forward
strength). Lastly, the correlation between the percent of all mentions
of the target (i.e.~number of mentions / number of times the target
could have been mentioned) was r = .79, p\textless{}.001. These
statistics suggest that while many unique words were obtained outside of
the Nelson norms, there was a great deal of expected overlap within the
current data and previously normed words; thus supporting Hypothesis 1.
Dependent variable calculation. In this experiment, the dependent
variable was considered the slope value calculated when using a simple
linear regression to predict participant judgments. First, each
participant's judgment scores were matched to the Nelson et al. (2004)
free association norm data. As described above, some pairings created by
the experimental groups were not present in the Nelson et al. norms, so
these data were discarded when calculating the slope values for that
group. Judgment and free association data was scaled to a 100 point
system, so that all B values are comparable across groups and to
previous research (Maki, 2007a, 2007b). Finally, the free association
norms were used as the independent variable to predict participant
judgment scores, creating a measure of sensitivity to the difference
between lowly and highly related word pairs. This procedure created
three norm matched variables call FA norms below in tables: (1) control
group ratings, (2) experimental group ratings, and (3) matched group
ratings. Second, experimental group participant norms were matched to
both the experimental group and matched group ratings on judgment pairs.
Their norms were used to predict ratings in a simple linear regression,
again scaled to 100 points for comparison. This procedure created two
sets of participant normed sensitivity slopes: (1) experimental and (2)
matched. For all analyses described below, control groups were
considered a between subject's variable for comparison to matched and
experimental groups because both the participants and stimuli were
different. The experimental and matched groups were considered repeated
measures variables because the stimuli and norms used to create the
dependent variable were exactly the same (i.e.~the matched group was
yoked). Therefore, a main difference between experimental and matched
groups was the experience with creating the word set, which was the
primary goal of this analysis. Further detail about the motivation of
this analysis procedure is listed with the individual hypotheses. All
assumptions were analyzed for individual analyses, including outliers,
and no problems were found. Hypothesis 2. Hypothesis 2 examined if
participants were sensitive to the strength of relation between word
pairs and could discern the difference between lowly and highly related
word pairs. Table 2 shows the average slope values for each group-normed
association combination. To test Hypothesis 2, single-sample t-tests
were used to compare group slope values against zero. If slope values
were significantly greater than zero, this finding would indicate that
groups were able to complete the judgment task and predict the
relationship between word pairs better than chance. Previous studies
have shown slope values ranging from 0.2 to 0.5 (Maki, 2007a, 2007b,
Nelson et al., 2005) when participant scores are compared to the Nelson
et al. (2004) free association ratings. As indicated in Table 2, all
single sample values were significantly greater than zero at p
\textless{} .001. An examination of the mean and Cohen's d values show
that the slopes for control, matched, and experimental-free association
normed groups were large effect sizes matching previous literature
(i.e.~slopes averaging around 0.20). As predicted in Hypothesis 2B, the
experimental-participant norm group showed a larger mean, with a very
large effect size when compared to a non-sensitive slope of zero.
Therefore, Hypothesis 2 was supported, showing that all groups were able
to judge word pairs better than random guessing. Interestingly, matched
groups compared to participant norms were also significantly greater
than zero at p \textless{}.001. This finding seems to indicate that
matched participants were able to judge the strength of pairs created by
others, at about the same level as when compared to free association
norms and control groups (however, the difference was tested below).
Hypothesis 3. Next, this hypothesis examined the relationship between
group slope values to show that even though norms are predictive of
participant judgments, the experimental group ratings of their own norms
are higher than matched or control group norms. First, control groups
were compared to all other groups using independent t-tests, followed by
experimental and matched groups analyses using repeated measures ANOVA.
Control groups were tested with similar but different word pairs on
their associative judgments, while experimental and matched pair groups
were tested on the same word pairs. Therefore, even though participants
were different in the experimental and matched conditions, their data
was tied to the same stimuli and considered repeated measures data.
Furthermore, the comparison between free association and participant
normed data was repeated on the same data, making a 2 (condition) X 2
(norm comparison) repeated measures ANOVA analyses appropriate. These
analyses will indicate if the experimental group's experience with the
word set allowed them to more accurately judge word pairs over a matched
person's judgment of the same word pairs. This interaction with the word
set should also improve their judgments over free association norms
predicting their judgment scores. Control group slopes were not expected
to differ from matched groups or experimental groups when compared to
free association norms. This finding was expected because in these
groups, participants are judging the strength of word pairs in the same
manner as the control group (matched groups procedure) or being compared
to the population average free association (experimental groups), which
mimics the control group task. Table 3 portrays the t-test differences
between groups, in which these findings are shown. Control groups were
actually significantly greater than matched groups when compared to the
participant norms, indicating that when participants are asked to rate
how many people out of a 100 would list the second word to the first,
participants are better when compared to the normed average than rating
individual made averages. Lastly, control group slopes are much lower
than experimental groups when compared to participant norms, as expected
since experimental groups are judging their own pairs instead of an
averaged probability with the free association norms. A 2X2 repeated
measures ANOVA showed groups differences overall, F(1, 40) = 25.65, p
\textless{} .001, É³2 = .39, as well as the comparison between
participant norms and free association norms, F(1, 40) = 24.58, p
\textless{} .001, É³2 = .38. However, the interaction between norm
comparison and group was significant, F(1, 40) = 41.09, p \textless{}
.001, É³2 = .51, so only this effect will be analyzed with dependent
t-tests for post hoc. These t-test values are shown in Table 3.
Experimental group slopes were significantly larger than matched group
slopes when they are compared against the experimental group norms,
which show that the creation of individualized norms allows participants
to judge relationships better than judging other participant word pairs.
Further, these experimental group participant norms are higher than the
free association counterpart for both matched groups and experimental
groups. Therefore, we can attribute the improved experimental group
performance to previous interaction with word-pairs instead of just
\enquote{easy} stimuli, otherwise these groups would all show the same
slope values (i.e.~groups would all show a small sensitivity to strength
as seen in the control group analysis). Lastly, matched group
comparisons were not significantly different, further supporting the
experimental group's interaction hypothesis. This finding is important
because a stimuli specific finding would show that matched group
participants norm slopes should be greater than the free association
norm slopes (i.e.~the words created by the experimental group are just
somehow obvious at the differences in low and high strength pairs).

\section{Discussion}\label{discussion}

In viewing these findings, it appears that participants can judge the
associative strength between word-pairs, and quite well when given their
own associative norms to judge. The experimental group was better at
judging low and high frequency relationships when compared to a matched
group of participants and a control group of participants. The
interaction with the word-pairs over repeated trials improved
performance for judgments, indicating that expertise has a positive
effect on judgment performance. This result is not too unexpected as
much research shows that experts are better at working memory tasks
within their expertise (Chase \& Simon, 1973; Ericsson \& Delaney,
1998), as well as better suited to work within long term memory
(Ericsson \& Delaney, 1999). However, previous research on JAM showed
that participants were not able to improve their performance when given
practice and feedback with judgments (Maki, 2007b; Koriat \& Bjork,
2006), which is also a large component of expertise. Potentially, the
difficulty in judgments could be embedded within the experimental
design. Participants rate what a collection of 100 college students have
said for a cue word, which is how the original free association norms
were collected. In theory, forward strength probabilities are the
collective likelihood of obtaining a target word when given a cue word
(Nelson, McEvoy, \& Dennis, 2000). Why should we expect participants to
be able to guess at other's free association when this study showed that
many unique words were created in the norming process? Two reasons: (1)
simply put, people estimate probabilities of events all the time, and
(2) the current study showed that much of these collective norms were
reproduced across the dataset. The popular game show Family Feud had
contestants guess the most likely answers to different cued categories
and would have been very boring indeed if people could not estimate a
common answer to a cue. During normal day we estimate all sorts of
events: how long will it take to get to work, did I turn off the stove
(how likely was I to remember to turn it off?), how long should I wait
for a friend for lunch, have I studied enough for a test, etc. All of
these functions require an estimate based on previous knowledge of
probabilities of events.\\
The daily practice of estimation does not seem to make us any better at
the actual estimation. Koriat (2008) and Bjork's (2005, 2006) research
on metacognitive control implies that participants can provide better
estimations of how well they have learned something (and subsequent
performance on an exam) but only with increased awareness of the
pitfalls of foresight bias. This work has shown that participants are
better at judging their own normed probabilities, but even these
judgments are not perfect. A very sensitive judgment slope would be
close to a B of one. Here, the average slope for the experimental group
when compared to their own norms was B = .54, and ranged from B = -.18
to B = .80 (an average similar to Nelson et al.'s (2005) studies on
judgments). Therefore, while it is clear that judging one's own memories
improves estimation, judgments are still less sensitive to the actual
frequency of events. We can easily tell students to \enquote{just keep
studying} to alleviate the problem of overestimation of learning and
performance, other judgment estimations may not be so easy to fix.
Expanded studies may wish to investigate the role of the stimuli
(e.g.~word frequency) on judgments, which may show that our interaction
with words and their relations has a mitigating effect on our
estimations of frequency.

\newpage

\section{References}\label{references}

\setlength{\parindent}{-0.5in} \setlength{\leftskip}{0.5in}






\end{document}
