{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\vieww12000\viewh15040\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs16 \cf0 <n 32> <id keyboard> <cr> <d 60> <clfb> <dbc 000000000> <dwc 255255255> <vm 1024, 768, 768, 16, 60> <dfd 180> <zil> <zor> <vzk +1><vzk +2><vzk +3><vzk +4><vzk +5><vzk +6><vzk +7>  <vzk +8><vzk +9><vzk +0> <umpr> <umnr> <mpr +1><mpr +2><mpr +3><mpr +4> <mpr +5><mpr +6><mpr +7><mpr +8><mpr +9><mpr +0> <vzk "+numpad 0"> <vzk "+numpad 1"> <vzk "+numpad 2"> <vzk "+numpad 3"> <vzk "+numpad 4"> <vzk "+numpad 5"> <vzk "+numpad 6"> <vzk "+numpad 7"> <vzk "+numpad 8"> <vzk "+numpad 9"> <mpr "+numpad 0"> <mpr "+numpad 1"> <mpr "+numpad 2"> <mpr "+numpad 3"> <mpr "+numpad 4"> <mpr "+numpad 5"> <mpr "+numpad 6"> <mpr "+numpad 7"> <mpr "+numpad 8"> <mpr "+numpad 9">\
\'a0 \
0 "Speeded Judgment Experiment."; \
0 "Press the space bar to begin."; \
0  "This experiment is partially concerned with the structure of human associative memory." @-2, "Consider the word (and concept of) DOG. We know that dogs breathe, eat, sleep, have " @-1, "four legs, have tails, are generally friendly toward humans, and, for some of these reasons," @0, "are related to other animals like cats. All this knowledge is structured in some way and the " @1,  "mental structure is thought to come about through a process of associative learning."@2 ;\
\
0 "So, for example, we often see the word DOG appear in the same context as the word " @-2, "CAT. 'It's raining cats and dogs.' 'I have two dogs, but my neighbor has a cat.' And so" @-1, "on. By experiencing the words CAT and DOG together many times, we develop an " @0, "association (a mental connection) between them. With lots of this kind of associative " @1,  "learning experience during our lives, we develop a very large and very complex associative memory." @2; \
\
0 "Psychologists are interested in understanding the structure of associative memory " @-2, "and have several ways of investigating it. One method of investigating associative " @-1,  "memory is known as a test of 'free association.' In free association tests, participants " @0, "like you are given a series of words and are asked to respond  to each word by writing" @1, "the first word that pops into mind." @2; \
\
0 "You will be asked to judge two words based on their association. When you do this think about this:" @-1 , "Assume 100 college students from around the nation gave responses to each CUE word." @0 , "How many of these 100 students do you think would have given the RESPONSE word?" @+1 ;\
\
0 "Please use this scale:" @-3, "For 0-9, press 0	  	   For 50-59, press 5" @-2 , "For 10-19, press 1		   For 60-69, press 6" @-1 , "For 20-29, press 2		   For 70-79, press 7" @0 ,\
"For 30-39, press 3		   For 80-89, press 8" @+1 ,  "For 40-49, press 4		   For 90-100, press 9" @+2 ;\
\
0 "Press the space bar to try some for practice." ; \
=1 * " fingernail clippers " ;\
=2 * " comet meteor " ;\
=3 * " vice grip " ;\
=4 * " mask costume " ;\
=5 * " ledge balcony " ;\
=6 * " celsius heat " ;\
=7 * " gauze bandage " ;\
=8 * " assistance handicap " ;\
=9 * " editor author " ;\
=10 * " trot fox " ;\
=11 * " four eight " ;\
=12 * " utensil fork " ;\
=13 * " alligator animal " ;\
=14 * " fugitive convict " ;\
=15 * " compassion emotion " ;\
0 "Practice over.\'a0 Please press the space bar when you are ready to continue.";\
=103 * " baby diaper " ;\
=109 * " death funeral " ;\
=110 * " dinner supper " ;\
=102 * " astronaut space " ;\
=131 * " request demand " ;\
=138 * " smear spread " ;\
=136 * " shortcake strawberry " ;\
=140 * " spank discipline " ;\
=101 * " air sky " ;\
=122 * " hurt pain " ;\
=124 * " kick football " ;\
=127 * " negative positive " ;\
=104 * " bullet gun " ;\
=132 * " scream yell " ;\
=108 * " cub bear " ;\
=117 * " full empty " ;\
=129 * " rage anger " ;\
=143 * " toss throw " ;\
=106 * " clean white " ;\
=147 * " wood splinter " ;\
=120 * " guard national " ;\
=146 * " woman man " ;\
=107 * " crackle pop " ;\
=125 * " like enjoy " ;\
=119 * " grandpa grandma " ;\
=128 * " planet earth " ;\
=130 * " relax stress " ;\
=141 * " steps stairs " ;\
=139 * " soap suds " ;\
=148 * " work labor " ;\
=123 * " insight foresight " ;\
=134 * " serpent snake " ;\
=126 * " money bank " ;\
=145 * " value cost " ;\
=114 * " flesh skin " ;\
=144 * " vacuum carpet " ;\
=112 * " fairytale story " ;\
=118 * " go stop " ;\
=105 * " buyer seller " ;\
=142 * " tissue organ " ;\
=116 * " forget forgive " ;\
=133 * " scuba dive " ;\
=111 * " direction compass " ;\
=137 * " slow fast " ;\
=121 * " guest company " ;\
=115 * " flower bloom " ;\
=113 * " fawn deer " ;\
=135 * " session therapy " ;\
\
0 "This experiment is partially concerned with the how humans perceive similarities between the " @-2, "characteristics which define words. Consider the word (and concept of) TORTOISE. We know that"  @-1,  "a TORTOISE is a reptile with an exoskeleton and a hard shell. If we compare the word TORTOISE " @0,  "with the word TURTLE, we find that they share a majority of the same features. " @1,  "Therefore their definitions or characteristics overlap greatly." @2;\
\
0 "When compared, the words TORTOISE and SNAIL are found to have characteristics that are " @-3, "fairly similar, but there are almost as many dissimilar traits as there are similar. For example, " @-2, "both animals are reptiles and have exoskeleton shells. However a tortoise is a reptile and a " @-1, "snail is a mollusk. This means that the characteristics only moderately overlap. Although " @0, "TORTOISE and SNAIL share many of the same taxonomy traits, the psychological concepts" @1, "shared by TORTOISE and SNAIL differ from the taxonomical traits in the sense that the " @2, "psychological traits separate the two concepts more than taxonomy would. " @3;\
\
0 "If we compare the word TORTOISE with the word BANNER we find that there is very little which " @-2, "these two objects have in common. TORTOISE and BANNER are so dissimilar because the" @-1, " concepts of what make a TORTOISE and what make a BANNER hardly overlap at all. For " @0, "example they are both physical objects, but a TORTOISE is animate and a BANNER is inanimate  " @1;\
\
0 "Please use this scale:" @-3,\
"For 0-9, press 0	  	   For 50-59, press 5" @-2 ,\
"For 10-19, press 1		   For 60-69, press 6" @-1 ,\
"For 20-29, press 2		   For 70-79, press 7" @0 ,\
"For 30-39, press 3		   For 80-89, press 8" @+1 , \
"For 40-49, press 4		   For 90-100, press 9" @+2 ;\
\
0 "Press the space bar to try some for practice."; \
\
=16 * " cent coin " ;\
=17 * " treasure chest " ;\
=18 * " reminiscence memory " ;\
=19 * " bishop chess " ;\
=20 * " climate atmosphere " ;\
=21 * " ornament christmas " ;\
=22 * " third base " ;\
=23 * " absence attendance " ;\
=24 * " kin brother " ;\
=25 * " pasta salad " ;\
=26 * " ethics morals " ;\
=27 * " conscience honesty " ;\
=28 * " bandit burglar " ;\
=29 * " pawn cross " ;\
=30 * " lump breast " ;\
\
0 "Practice over.\'a0 Please press the space bar when you are ready to continue.";\
\
=221 * " high low " ;\
=242 * " swamp marsh " ;\
=205 * " braces teeth " ;\
=201 * " add subtract " ;\
=229 * " nut cashew " ;\
=235 * " robin bird " ;\
=231 * " pet animal " ;\
=243 * " ten nine " ;\
=206 * " can opener " ;\
=240 * " sport tennis " ;\
=214 * " eternity forever " ;\
=204 * " boy girl " ;\
=245 * " uncle aunt " ;\
=230 * " pepper salt " ;\
=237 * " sheriff deputy " ;\
=233 * " rain snow " ;\
=224 * " male female " ;\
=202 * " bleach clorox " ;\
=225 * " marrow bone " ;\
=219 * " good bad " ;\
=209 * " cream coffee " ;\
=212 * " dolphin flipper " ;\
=216 * " fingernail toenail " ;\
=234 * " reject deny " ;\
=246 * " vary differ " ;\
=227 * " nail hammer " ;\
=239 * " sneaker shoe " ;\
=218 * " fuel gas " ;\
=215 * " father mother " ;\
=203 * " boat ship " ;\
=236 * " shark jaws " ;\
=248 * " world globe " ;\
=244 * " tribe indian " ;\
=228 * " north south " ;\
=222 * " jet plane " ;\
=223 * " laugh joke " ;\
=207 * " cell blood " ;\
=232 * " question answer " ;\
=247 * " wag tail " ;\
=213 * " door knob " ;\
=211 * " decompose rot " ;\
=241 * " steal rob " ;\
=226 * " math algebra " ;\
=220 * " here there " ;\
=238 * " snail escargot " ;\
=208 * " companion friend " ;\
=217 * " front back " ;\
=210 * " dad mom " ;\
\
0\'a0 "You have just participated in a study on word relationships in memory.  Our hypothesis " @-3, \
"is that these two types of word relationships are stored differently in your brain.  Specifically, " @-2, \
"associative memory is easier to access than semantic memory.  What this means is that " @-1, \
"associative memory is easier to think about, and you should be able to judge those word " @0, \
"relationships faster than semantic word pairs.  We are testing to see if when you judged the " @1, \
"associative word relationships you were faster than when you judged the semantic word " @2, \
"relationships.  This information will show if associative information is" @3,\
"remembered differently than semantic information." @4;\
}